This is the first podcast I've done this
year where we had tears. Um, and not
just once. And uh, I don't really know
how to introduce this conversation.
I guess I guess the thing I want you to
know is that things aren't always what
they seem. And um,
really that humans all feel the same. We
all feel the same emotions, the same
peaks, the same troughs. And no matter
what it looks like on the the outside,
things aren't always what they seem.
I'm Steven Bartlet and this is the diary
of a CEO. I hope nobody's listening, but
if you are, then please keep this to
yourself.
[Music]
Visualization. That's a very relevant
word, I think, to start this
conversation because in our last
conversation last year when I asked you
what you wanted to be remembered for,
what you wanted to do next in your
career, you told me that you wanted to
have a legacy for getting kids all
across this country up exercising and
really into exercise. Sort of similar to
how Jamie Oliver completely changed the
way we view like school dinners and
things. And I remember Jamie Oliver was
the reason I was eating apples instead
of Mars bars when I was younger. And
then
just like a couple of months later,
the pandemic happens
and you're getting millions and millions
and of kids in this country up dancing
and into exercise
only a couple months later. It like
boggles my mind. I've never seen someone
say something so big, such a big
ambition, and then only like a couple of
months later do it on a scale which
nobody has ever done it before. That's
what happened. And I remember when we
met and we talked about that moonshot
thing, the idea of like having a goal so
big and so out of reach that you feel
like you can never, you know, almost
never attain it. And that was my vision.
It was to have that legacy of making an
impact, you know. And I do think about
Jamie. He's had amazing success as a
chef, as a, you know, an author. Look, I
think about the Jamie school dinners,
the man who went into the schools all
over the UK and said, "Look, this isn't
this isn't enough. Our kids can eat
healthier." And I feel the same about
school fitness and exercise and PE, not
just about obesity and the diabetes
thing, but I think about our children's
mental health. And I said to you that I
want to have a legacy where I can create
absolute, you know, national change and
national um create awareness around
fitness and, you know, lockdown happened
and within, you know, 18 weeks that
happened. So it was almost like a
10-year dream happened in 18 weeks and
I'm so proud of that that I I've reached
that many people.
Take take me to the start of so lockdown
happens. Where does this idea come from?
Like what what happens? How does And
then I want to hear like when you saw
the numbers, the amount of people tuning
in every day and the impact it was
having. How did all of that feel?
It was an intense moment in time, but it
was also something I' I did visualize
and I did I had been working on. So I'd
been visiting schools. I on the UK tour.
I went to Ireland, Northern Ireland. I'
I'd visited schools. I'd worked out with
hundreds of kids in these schools. Um,
that Monday I was supposed to go on
another tour, me and Nikki. We're going
to take the camera, you know, it's my
brother Nikki. Um, and like I've always
said, there was no TV show. There was no
money. There was no budget. It was just
me and Nikki going and doing what we
love, which is connecting. And I suppose
reconnecting with the mission and
purpose I have because when it's all
digital, I do sometimes feel like it's
just numbers and is it is it real
people? So, I have to go and visit the
schools and actually meet the kids and
do it. So, on the Monday, I was supposed
to go out on the road. We had about 15
schools chosen and Boris announced, you
know, there's going to be this lockdown.
So, it was 12:15 a.m. I was laying in
bed on the Thursday night and I text
Nikki cuz I looked at my WhatsApp the
next day and I text Nikki saying, "I've
got this idea." Um, and honestly, I saw
everything. I saw a hashtag. I saw a
logo. I saw the name. I said, "It's
going to be called PE with Joe every day
next week. Do it. Let's just try it for
a week. 9:00 a.m. um Monday to Friday."
I announced it and loads of PR, you
know, loads of school newsletter was,
you know, school news letters were
tweets tweeting it and I was doing ESPN,
CNN, like global PR and I thought this
is going to be really big, but still had
no idea how many people would tune in on
the Monday. Um, and on the Monday we
went live. I stepped in front of that
camera and I was really nervous and
850,000 I think it was live streams and
I thought, wow, like if you think about
how many kids that could possibly be and
then day two was the biggest one. So day
2 was 954,000
live streams, which is a a world record.
Yeah. Concurrent live.
It was almost a million people watching
at the same time.
Yeah. It it blew my mind. And I I
realized there and then that that was
like families, that was kids, it was
schools. It wasn't like individual
people. So really, it was probably tens
of millions of people a day. And I felt
this amazing sense of purpose. Like I
was there for people that when they
needed me the most because everyone was
locked in. you know, whether you had
children or not, you were like confined,
you felt restricted, your mental health
was going to suffer that day. And I was
there like to to be there and just have
fun. And I never once, one thing I was
really cautious of, never mentioned
lockdown, never mentioned COVID or the
or you know, anything to do with that.
It was like it was a safe 30 minutes
where we could forget about things. I
put the music on, we were dancing around
being really silly and that was a gift.
That was my gift to the world. It was
just a bit of laughter, some feelood
energy, and a and a real boost in their
mood. When that finished, I know that
they were happier afterwards. And you
must have got a lot of calls from the
big sort of production companies and TV
companies wanting to like buy it or or
to to bring it to TV, right?
Within within a few days. So, you
remember I told you the story about the
Channel 4 thing. I was trying my hardest
to make the UK tour thing and a
documentary around schools fitness, but
they never had the budget that no one
could do it. Well, within a few days,
the head of Channel 4, like the top guy,
I can't think of his name, called me up
personally. He said, "Joe, what you're
doing is amazing. We'd love you to
stream the workouts on Channel 4." And I
I was like, dude, like I'm doing this on
YouTube. I've got kids in Sri Lanka and
South America and India and like even
like Madagascar and the Maldes taking
part in these workouts. I can't do this
on Channel 4. I need to be global. And
I'm so glad I stuck with that because
that really allowed it to go global. It
allowed everyone all over the world to
take part. And don't forget, I was
getting a million live streams, but by
the end of the 24 hours, there was 7 8
million views.
Crazy.
So total 80 million views on the 18
weeks. So 80 million individual views.
But how many families or schools are
doing that? So it's tens of millions of
kids and that was my dream. So I just
can't believe it happened. But I built
up that trust over eight years. You
know, as the body coach, as Joe Wixs, as
this missiondriven person, anyone could
have had the same idea, but maybe they
wouldn't have had the same reaction
because like I said, I've put out so
much love and energy and positivity and
visiting these schools that those
teachers knew I was going to deliver a
really fun and safe session for their
kids. 18 million people is, you know,
when you sat down with me last year and
we had this conversation, you said you
wanted to to do this nationally, right?
You said you want to get kids exercising
nationally. There's only about 60
million people in the UK. You managed to
do 80 million people all around the
world on a global level, but also at a
time when people really needed that kind
of energy the most. at a time when the
country was, you know, fearful and
people were trapped indoors and not
exercising as much as they they could
have been. So I, you know, we can talk
about the the pee with Joe thing for a
long time, but the thing that actually
fascinates me more is what happens
afterwards.
So you've just that goal you set out to
achieve, you achieved it quick.
How does it feel after? Well, you talk
about that gold medal syndrome, you
know, of people having this like coming
off tour or coming to back from the
Olympics and they have this kind of
feeling of like feeling flat or not
depressed maybe, but confused and lost.
And that's what happened. I moved into
this new house and I thought, I've got
this lovely house. Why? Why am I feeling
flat? And for the first two weeks I was
there, I was missing my old house in
Richmond because my children were born
there. PE with Joe was in that living
room that you interviewed me in. And it
was like this I left this energy behind
and moved into this new life. And I was
like, why am I feeling like this? And I
realized it was because I I'd lost my
purpose. I'd been disconnected from that
audience every day. Um, so when I felt
that, the first thing I do, I jump on my
Instagram. Like I said to you, I used to
do DMs and voice notes and I reconnect
with the messages. I read the YouTube
comments so that I know 2 million people
a month were doing YouTube um workouts
before the lockdown. I'm now getting six
to seven million views a month. So
that's real people that have changed
their habits that are still doing it.
Um, and it reminded me why I did it. And
also I had wonderful letters. So, I had
two two or three I'm going to say it was
probably near like two or three thousand
like letters and cards and things.
That's that seems mad, but I had this
stack of um things to go through. So, I
sat in my office for 2 days, you know,
laughing, crying, like feeling this
love. It was like this wave of love when
I realized what I'd actually done during
that time. It wasn't just about me
getting kids exercising. It was like
widows. It was single parents. It was
people with anxiety and depression
living on their own. And in all the all
the different places in the world, it
was really emotional. So, I did feel
lost, but I've reconnected with that
because now I'm still doing my YouTube
workouts. I'm still delivering free
content. And although there's this new
product and this app coming out, I'm so
passionate and committed to doing that
one workout a week that I will never
neglect that free content and that
audience that are there that still may
never buy my app or my my books.
You talked about buying a new house,
probably a bit of a dream come true in
many senses. Um, but again, you speak
about it being kind of anticlimactical,
like in like it not feeling like that
expectation that when you got that big
house, cuz I've seen the house, it's
it's a nice house. You should have felt
like confetti should have come down and
you should have felt amazing and but you
kind of described it like you didn't
feel that like that.
Yeah, I kind of thought, you know, I was
I was going to move anyway, but it was
like the the the lockdown accelerated
because we had paparazzi outside and I
wasn't used to that, you I wasn't used
to being having like photos taken of me
in India when we walked to the park and
we lived on a main road so it's quite
public and people would knock and and
sort of say hello and it was fine but
sometimes you just want a little bit of
privacy like when you switch off. So we
found this lovely house and it's you
know it's got a nice driveway. It's got
a beautiful back garden. And when I was
in there I just kind of thought why
aren't I double as happy? I've got more
space. I've got more garden but I
genuinely felt like I left that part of
me behind in that house that was so
purpose driven. It was all about pee
with Joe. It's where my kids were born.
So, I suppose it's a lesson, and I
really talked about that when Boris
announced the lockdown number two. And
I'm sitting there in my kitchen, I've
got all this space. I'm thinking it
doesn't matter if you've got a massive
house, we live in a one-bedroom flat, we
all feel the same right now. We all feel
very disconnected, very lonely. You
know, we miss our friends and family. We
need to socialize. We need events, we
need live music, we need dinners. So, so
it's just a really important message
that it doesn't matter what situation
you're in. We're all feeling the same.
And I really wanted to share that
message. And it it definitely helped
people open up the conversation because
we're all we're all struggling, you
know, mentally with this with what's
going on. And yeah, you know, you've
talked about it before, you know,
ordering the car and the house. And I
think we're driven by these things and
consumerism like we we we're always
wanting the next thing. But what I've
realized during this lockdown is I'm
happy exactly where I am with just what
I've got.
And that's a nice feeling. It's really
nice when you realize that another
Rolex, another car, even another
motorbike or another holiday, it doesn't
it doesn't give you what you really
think. And I think people listening that
are desperate for that life,
I think we all will come to the same
conclusion eventually. Whether you're 30
or 60, we will all level out and realize
that what's important is our friends and
our connection and and our love to the
people around us.
It's as you say, it took me a long time
to learn that lesson. And I the the
phrase that I was
You're only 27, aren't you?
Something like that.
Yeah. You ain't taking that long. You
know, you you've got I think you're very
When I listen to your podcast, I think
you've got a lot of wisdom. I think
you've spoken to a lot of people and
you've you've absorbed a lot and I think
you've really taken into your own um
your own life and philosophies. I think
I think it you know what I think it is I
I've also been really like
selfanalytical as in I will have a
thought and I'll have a feeling and I'll
try and grab onto it and hold it out in
front of me and go why are you feeling
like that? So the day as you kind of
alluded to there where I realized I was
going to be very wealthy and I start
looking at cars and houses. I get this
feeling of like the feeling you
described with your old house which is I
think if I get this I'll actually feel
poorer in some way. I'll lose something.
Like if I and then I thought to myself,
well if I get this one what's next? If
you get a Lamborghini Aventador the the
best [__] sports car, what's next?
And then I was like I'm going to just
keep going. And then me realizing that
if I if I always start believe that my
happiness was somewhere else, in a
promotion, in a new car, in a big house,
it will never be here.
If I if I believe that I can't possibly
be happy because I don't have X, I will
never be happy because once I get X,
it's like a mirage or a rainbow. It just
moves out further in front of you.
Yeah. And you see that with a lot of
celebrities, a lot of musicians, like
talented people that get everything so
young, you know, they get to that point
where they start, you know, they go into
depression and anxiety and it can, you
know, manifest in drug addiction or, you
know, all kinds of things. But yeah,
it's if you're constantly looking for
the next thing or or or almost living in
the past of old memories and what you
used to have like you talk about down
contrasting and up contrasting like that
thing you said changed my life. Just
thinking, stop thinking about what you
did last year, how you went to America
and you went to Coachella. Think about
what you're doing today and not worrying
about that. And it really just brings
you to a it's like a medit it's like a
meditation it's like a thought a simple
thought where you can actually start to
bring yourself back to the moment and
like like I said I it could be a quote
it could be a podcast it could be an
interview little things just sometimes
it opens up a whole new thought process
isn't it and you start to think actually
do you know what that's amazing and also
I interviewed Fern Cotton and she said
one of this lovely quotes is nothing in
nature blooms all year round
you know where we're const like I need
number one podcast I need the number one
app I need to have um you know the best
book I need everything's got to be
number one. I need to be doing
everything every month for the year. But
I've realized that in nature like
nothing blooms all year round. And that
again made me realize it's okay to have
quiet months and not be in the media.
Chill out, relax, because something good
will come later on the year. You'll
bloom again and during summer. And I
think so little things like that really
open up my mind. And I'm evolving
quickly. I think since I become a parent
as well, um you start to be much more
empathetic and you start to understand
and you feel a lot more when you've got
kids. I don't know where it comes from,
but I'm I I think a lot more about other
people's feelings now more than I ever
used to.
I actually wrote down um when I was
watching your video that you did during
the lockdown where you start discussing
your own mental health and you saying,
"I've just watched Boris's announcement
and I'm feeling really shit." But in
that video, you also say, "I'm feeling
[__] at the thought that there's loads
of families out here that are going to
lose their jobs and stuff." And I wrote
in my notes ear like incredibly
empathetic. Like you are incredibly
empathetic. And it kind of it made me
question like where where did he get
that from? Cuz that is a trait I noticed
in you last time as well. Most people in
the middle of a lockdown when they just
found out that we're going into our
second lockdown don't think oh my god
all these other people that are going to
lose their jobs and you I could see it
in your face and I know you're a genuine
guy cuz I've I've been with you. We gone
for dinner. You know outside of the
podcast I know who you are. I'm like he
genuinely genuinely cares.
I think it's grown in I think that
feeling has grown in me. But where I
used to be like, you know, when you're a
teenager, when you're a young adult,
it's all about you. It's like me, me, me
me. And then you, you know, you find a
partner and you start to realize it's
about your partner and it's about your
kids. But I think, yeah, like the more I
realized that we're all connect. It's
that thing of connection. You know, it
comes from sometimes a meditation or a
feeling of like we're all we're all in
the same experience. And you know, I've
I've been very lucky. Like the body
coach brand has grown. You know, my
YouTube audience has grown. Like the
signups of the planets, it's all gone
insane. And so I think about other
people and small businesses. I I
genuinely care about I think about
families that have run like restaurants
for 30 years or had you know properties
or had like amazing nightclubs or you
know amazing restaurants that are
suddenly going under like that it
affects me and that really when I stop
and think about all the pain and
suffering in the world it really brings
me down. It really kind of brings my
energy down and then I have to kind of
exercise or do something positive
because I start to feel a bit sad
because that is the world right now. You
know, there's billions of people that
are going through a really difficult
time. And so, my reaction to that is
trying to inspire them to move, to eat
well, to exercise, cuz I know that it
can counteract any kind of, you know,
financial pressures or stress that's
going on. If you exercise and you lift
your energy and you and you put good
food in your body, you know, even
temporarily, you're going to feel better
and it's going to change your mind. So,
that's my gift. You know, I try and
inspire people to exercise and feel good
for, you know, even if it's once a day
or once a week, it's enough to change
the way you feel about yourself and your
life. We went for um a little dinner a
couple of couple of months back. I don't
know uh I think just after the first
lockdown before the second one. Um, and
I was I came home really inspired on one
end, but just I couldn't shake this
thought. And I I hate to go back to it,
but I couldn't shake this idea that you
just had the biggest achievement of your
life with this P I mean outside of your
kids in my opinion um out with this P
with Joe format that just shook it just
spread across the world, right? And the
Joe I met at that dinner was somewhat
despondent as you say like confused and
um as you say like really unsure about
why you weren't feeling on top of the
world and also really unsure about what
you do next to to kind of like top that
I guess and it really stayed with me. It
stayed with me for like a couple of
weeks.
What did you think? Do you think I was
going to be more like energetic and and
and proud and like ambitious or what?
Every every person on planet Earth would
have thought, "Okay, so Joe set out to
achieve something and he smashed it out
the park. He is on all of the TV
stations. Congratulations on the MBE, by
the way." That's a whole another
conversation. We'll get to that.
That's mad, isn't it?
Mad. Um,
he smashed everything out the park. Um,
he's got to be just absolutely buzzing.
We were sat at the dinner and there's
people coming up to us asking you for
pictures halfway through the dinner as
well. But you weren't like that. And
even though I've written about this in
my book at great length about gold medal
syndrome and gold medal depression and
my own experiences, I still when I saw
that in you, I was like, "Fuck, people
need to hear about this because you were
I'll be honest, right,
that was the lowest I've ever seen you."
Really?
Yeah.
I suppose I I mean,
I was concerned.
No, I mean, look, I was I was really
looking forward to seeing you and I was
it was I was, you know, we hadn't been
out for a while, but I think coming off
the back of that pee with Joe, I was
emotionally drained. I think, you know,
physically I can do workouts all day.
I've done a dude, I done a 24-hour
workout. Like, I can move my body, but I
think the energy of performing, like
going on stage, stepping in front of the
camera when I wasn't in the mood for it,
when I had to like pick up every I was
literally carrying everyone's emotion
and energy and trying to and I do
believe in energy that we carry it and
we push it and we sometimes hold
negative energy. We sometimes hold
things locked up from years ago. And I
was just, I suppose, fatigued,
emotionally fatigued at that point. But
I've bounced back, you know, I'm back in
the zone. I'm filming workouts again.
And I'm um I'm refocused like I said on
the on the purpose and and the mission
which is like fitness for all and I've
got the app is one option. I've got the
books as one option but then also
Instagram YouTube you know there's so
much free content because I don't want
anyone to feel like the body coach is
this premium brand and I can only get to
him through that paid subscription. No,
I'm still going to give you one workout
a week on YouTube and I'm still going to
do my Instagram recipes. I'm still going
to share my daily stories and motivate
you. Um, and every now and again I might
mention the app, but it really is just
like for people that want to give it
that extra push, you know, and try
something a bit different.
So, as we park pee with Joe, you know,
last time you sat down here, you you put
put out into the world your your goal,
your ambition, and it came true. So, I
think, you know, let's tempate again.
Uh, what is your what is your goal and
ambition now going forward in terms of
your purpose?
Well, I think what I what happened I
achieved was a short-term thing. You
know, it changed behaviors, but they had
to they had to do it because they were
locked in. parents had to keep their
kids moving. Um, you know, schools
weren't providing PE. Everything was
closed. So, it was a temporary thing. It
was the start of a movement, but it's
the legacy is still continuing that
movement. You know, continuing to visit
schools, continuing to speak to heads,
and I don't see it as a government thing
cuz I've realized that you can actually
just speak to local schools and they
have the ability to change their
curriculum. Well, they have to follow
the curriculum, but they can change
their timetable. if they want to fit a
15-minute workout in once a day with
their children or do it um you know at
the end of the day they have the
ability. So again, it's about continuing
to grow that mission to create content
maybe as a separate platform which
schools can use. But it isn't over
because like anything, motivation drops.
It mot it drops for me, it drops for
you. Um different times of the year and
with young people, they're very engaged
at the early ages in primary school, but
when they start hitting their teens,
they're in the devices, they become more
resistant to exercise. So the challenge
becomes tougher as they get older.
So my mission now is to continue the
school's work. um when I can go on the
road, start visiting schools again,
creating content, you know, um hopefully
creating a TV show around that, you
know, like Jamie Oliver School Dinners
was only six episodes. In my head, it
felt like it was weeks and months and
months of content. So, you know, I want
to do the same thing. I want to create a
really amazing series, whether it's um
you know, Netflix or BBC or Channel 4
where I can continue that conversation
to get one teacher or one dinner lady or
one um head of a school to believe in
the power of exercise for their
children. So, I really feel like I've
just started. There's so much more to
go.
I think you have as well. And you know,
so like we one thing I've learned from
doing this podcast and speaking to
guests like you is that and even Eddie
Hearn who we had on last week is how
pivotal and how defining our early years
are. And you are like a really
fascinating guy in so many ways. We
talked about your empathy, your
achievements. Um, all of these things
suggest that you're because they're such
extraordinary things or out of the
ordinary things suggest that you
probably had quite an out of ordinary
childhood. Whenever whenever I meet
someone uh who is achieved out of
ordinary things, I always think okay
tell me about your childhood. So, how
was your childhood Joe?
Oh, so you think you don't think it was
a stable childhood? Do you think there
was something a bit more that motivated
me on to
Yeah, I I think I think um and it
doesn't necessarily mean it was like a
really bad childhood or a good
childhood. I always, you know, and I
actually did childhood psychology for
two years, which people don't know
about. This is why I'm so fascinated by
like all the Freudian um psychology and
and how one thing that happened. I've
got a friend who told me that one thing
that happened when he was a kid, he
still remembers to the day to this day.
and he holds that one comment that
someone in his family made to him as the
reason for his probably his single
biggest flaw in his personality and it
was just one comment on one day from a
parent.
Yeah, that's that's that's amazing. And
it's the power of um
yeah the power of a negative thought
like if someone says your teeth are a
bit crooked or you've got skinny legs
like someone could say you got lovely
teeth your whole life but you still
think your teeth are crooked and that's
happened to me in the past. I got
Invisalign because one a girlfriend said
to me once, you know, your teeth are a
bit wonky or really, you know, and and
someone said about, you know, this is a
true story. When I was 16, I had
glasses, but I was really embarrassed. I
was really shy about it. And the the
girl I was going out of said I said
something like, "I wonder if I'd look
good in glasses." And she she said, "Oh,
no, you'd look silly in glasses." So, I
never wore them for two or three years.
I hide them in my car, drive to her
house, take them out. And, you know,
it's that thing of we really take on
these these thoughts and it can really
affect our confidence. Um, that
definitely happened to me as a kid. But
I suppose my childhood was very chaotic.
You know, it was very unstable. My dad
was a drug addict from a very young age.
So, you know, that was it was a bit
like, you know, he was there one minute,
next minute he was in rehab, next minute
he was he was back on the gear, you
know, and he my mom would take him back
and it was all good and then they'd be
arguing and, you know, I lived in a
council flat with um really thin doors.
So
it was like um it was like plywood and
so there used to be holes in the wall.
It used to be holes in the door cuz I
remember um and I used to think why are
there holes in the door? Like and I I
look back now I know it's cuz mom and
dad used to fight and argue and you know
it' be like it was a symbol of
aggression and impatience and
intolerance and then it'd be gone. And
so I always I didn't have a positive
role model in terms of in terms of a
male and also when it comes to marriage
you know my mom and dad never got
married. If they were married they would
have been divorced hundred times. So I
had similar beliefs around marriage and
commitment to you. Like when are you
talking about it? Like I I suppose I had
the same feelings when I was 25. I
didn't believe that people stay
together, people are committed, that
marriage is going to work, that you
know, people get through tough time
because it was always like when it got
[__] and tough, my dad would piss off
and we'd be back on our own again. So
you know, again, it was a tough
childhood, but also I had a happy
childhood. I didn't I don't feel like
resentment. I don't look back and be
like, I wish it was different. And I
wish my dad was there because we got a
great relationship today. But it
definitely affected me. You know, the
destruction of drugs in my household and
what came with it, all the chaos really
put me off ever wanting to smoke weed or
drink alcohol. You know, I was so scared
that I was going to enjoy it and I was
going to become an addict. I thought
it's a genetic thing. I thought I don't
want to be a drug addict, so I wouldn't
go near it. So, it definitely um it
definitely shaped me, you know, and when
I look at where my love and generosity
and empathy comes from, it's my mom.
like my mom is she's so kind and loving
and she's so always putting other people
first and I think that definitely shaped
me as a as an adult.
I didn't actually know this stuff about
you before. I didn't know that you'd
been through such a um tra traumatic
early childhood and as you were saying
that I was thinking [__] hell.
remarkable that you are who you are and
that you have such feelings of empathy
and you're just such a kind human being
having gone through such a you know
violent and traumatic childhood and I
guess that is credit to your mom. Um
I suppose yeah I look back when I get
asked in interviews now like where where
did your generosity and your kindness
come from and your kind of desire to
want to help others. It's about help. I
you know I'm happiest when I'm helping
others. So, if I know I'm helping
someone or I'm helping millions, I'm
really happy. And so, when it when it
stops, I felt I'm not I'm not I'm not I
haven't got my purpose. I'm not
valuable, but I realized I am still
valuable. I'm still helping people. Um,
but yeah, my mom, you know, she left
school at 15, no qualifications. She met
my dad in a squat. She had my brother
when she was 17. Then she had Nikki. She
had me when she was 19. She's like a
kid. And when we used to go places, like
people say, "Is that your sister?" She
looked so young. You can't imagine.
Um, but somewhere along the line, she
taught me value. She taught me respect.
You know, if I had to be home at 10:00
on a Friday night, I was home at 10:00.
My mates were down the park till 1 2 3
cuz their parents let them run loose and
they were the ones graffiti and they
were the ones smoking weed. They were
the ones that got in, you know, in
trouble for, you know, crimes and
whatnot. So, my mom was really,
considering she wasn't parented. Her dad
left her when she was a kid. She was she
was a banner when she was a baby. So I
don't know where her love comes from,
but she's got this ability to just love
and and be so generous. And when she
went to university, she went back. She
said, "I want to study." She she went to
become a social worker. So the first
thing she done with her life was go and
help people that had, you know, young
offenders, people that had been through
abuse and and all this stuff. So it has
to come from her. It is emotional cuz my
mom, so I took my mom for dinner um the
night before it was going to be
announced and I said to her like, "We're
celebrating my birthday tonight, aren't
we? Cuz it's we we were having a late
birthday dinner." But it's something
else. MB.
Yeah, my MB. And I said, "Mom, um, I've
got an MB." And she We're in the middle
of Lucky Cat restaurant in London and
she burst into tears and I'm like in the
middle of the restaurant crying with her
and she's like when she was younger like
all her friends used to say, "You're a
[__] [__] parent." Imagine the pride
and it is it's she raised me like I have
to put it down to her.
You talked about your dad there and said
you said that you've um after all that
you'd been through and all you'd
observed and his addiction and his
battles with addiction, you've got a
good relationship with him now. Yeah, we
we do because, you know, addiction never
goes away. Like he's, you know, he does
his NA meetings. It's a part of his
life, but he he needs that. He needs to
have a fellowship and a network of
people to talk to. Like I don't
understand addiction. I've never been
addicted to anything. So for me, it's
like it he needs that that network of
people he can talk to and that's
obviously at the moment mostly through
Zoom, but usually it's like NA meets
you, you know, you go and have a talk
and you you feel better. and he's had,
you know, he's had therapy, but you
know, he's learned he's he's became he's
evolved like again like his dad left him
and I understand my mom and dad because
they went through so much trauma. My mom
was abandoned when she was 2 years old
was living in a she was in a um you know
a an orphanage and then my dad the same
thing his dad left him like he didn't
have you know he didn't ever say I think
I don't think my dad's dad told him he
loved him until he was like on his
deathbed when he had cancer. So, like I
understand where that addiction, why my
dad chose to like do that with his life
and I understand why my mom had OCD like
cuz I know what she went through as a
kid. I know what she went through as a
young teenager. And so, you start to
understand it and then you start to
really love your parents even more
because they protect you when you're a
kid. They're just protection. They can't
tell you what they went through. They
can't tell you this stuff. So, it really
like makes you realize how much trauma
they've had and where that's manifested.
And so, now like my relationship with my
dad is I understand him. I understand
that he he has seasonal depression
during the winter he's really low and
he'll have a holiday and he feels great
and he comes back and he's up and down
and that's him and I just have to kind
of love him and although I'm quite
consistent with my emotions and you want
everyone around you supposed to be happy
all the time didn't you think I'll buy
him a motorbike I I'll send him to the
molds I he can go and stay at my house
in America it's all temporary it's all
it doesn't do a lot you know so real
connection comes from like communicating
reaching out spending spending time with
him like he's happy when comes around
and we go for a walk or we go on our
skateboards together you know we got
electric skate So, it's about
reconnecting and being with him. And he
he needs that. My dad needs to see the
grandkids. He needs to see my brothers.
He needs to see me. And um yeah, I've
just learned that like I said that
really nice quote that the the you know,
the antidote to addiction is connection.
Not push them away. I hate you. I can't
stand it. Why are you relapsing again?
Why are you going into depression? You
know, the mind's really complex and you
have to like understand that people
aren't going to always be how you want
them to be. And you have to love them
unconditionally.
But if you asked me as a teenager, I
would be too angry. I would be like,
"Fuck that." No, like I can't deal with
it. I don't have a dad. My dad's a drug
add. I don't speak to him. I wouldn't
have had the emotional um ability to
deal with that. But now, as an adult,
I'm 35 and I can understand it a bit
more.
So crazy cuz um I love that quote, by
the way, and it I think Johanna Hari's a
real uh sort of I think I've got his
book on the shelf behind me about loss
connection.
That's where it's from. Yeah, that's I
think Russell Brand mentioned it to me
and I thought, "Wow, it's such a nice
thought."
And that's what the book is about. It's
about the the real reasons for
depression and anxiety fundamentally
stem back to a loss of connection of
some sort. And it was it was telling
when you were telling your story about
the generational sort of cycle that's
going on there. Your mother's, you know,
your dad and her upbringing and then
your father's dad and how like it was a
a lack of connection it seems that put
them into the situations they were in
and then that lack of connection made
them a certain way which then nearly
made you treat them with a lack of
connection as well. And I think the it
seems like much of the reason you're
able to break the cycle is because
you've realized that and you're like, as
you say, bringing bringing him close
despite, you know, I talk about this a
lot with my friends that have um an
aranged parent or have lost a parent and
I always try tell them I was doing it
this week. I was saying you've got to
forgive them for their own faults
because their faults have come from some
kind of trauma. And Tony Robbins says it
as well. He says, "You've got sometimes
we've got to forgive our parents for
being imperfect, not being the parents
we hope they were."
It's so true. It's so true. And like you
said, you know, memories memories can
form like your literally change your
characteristic, your personality, your
belief system. And I had really negative
beliefs around commitment around um you
know, people being faithful, people
sticking together, like when things got
tough, the people and even I'd be
affected if like celebrities that I
really loved like they'd break up. I'd
think see that even they can't stay
together. I just thought no one stays
together. No one's loyal. No one's No
one's ever like actually happily married
and stays together. But now as a married
man with two kids who I love, I'm really
really like I don't believe that. I
believe that you can be happy. I believe
that when I see an old couple on the
bench, you know, a 78-y old couple, I
love that. I think how amazing they've
spent their life together, I want to be
like that. I want to be a couple that
have stuck together. So it's, you know,
my child has affected my um my my love
and commitment as as a in a as a rel in
a relationship to to Rosie, but also as
a parent. Like I don't want to be
impatient and intolerant and snappy and
swear and shout, but that is my default
setting. That's what my head's trying to
do when Indie and Molly is screaming at
me. I want to slam the door and walk out
the house or I want to scream and shout
back at him cuz that's what I that's
what I had as a kid. So I have to
actively work against that. So although
I might be screaming in my head, I just
take a breath and I like almost just
sort of um yeah, just take a moment to
just sort of calm myself and then I can
react very differently. But that is
that's like a muscle. You have to train
it
cuz otherwise I just be screaming and
shouting all day long,
you know. So that's definitely it's hard
to do that when you've had it all your
life and you just got, you know,
screamed at, shouted at. It's just it's
like what you know, isn't it?
Default. It's
a default. Yeah. Like it truly is. It's
like a it's like a computer program and
you have to sort of try and undo that
code. Um and I read a book called um
calm calm parents happy kids. And it's
that thing you can either fight flight
or or pause and have a breath. You can
fight him and swear and shout and scream
and slam the door. You can run out of
the house and just deal with it and let
them deal with it and just not even deal
with any emotion and show no emotional
control. Or you can pause and have a
breath. And that's the the secret. It's
just having that right. Indie's 2 years
old. Her brain's not rational. She can't
understand why I really want to just
clean the side and put her down on the
floor right now. And so like you've got
to literally remind yourself every time.
And then you can start to really respond
differently.
We're all human. You have days where you
you get it.
Oh have days like I mean of course I
have days where I shout and I lose the
plot and I feel terrible but also I know
that she won't hold it against me like
the amount of times I was shouted at I I
love my mom to death so it's not like
she shouted at me I think she's terrible
and I don't love her for today like I
think it's okay to not be perfect and
not be a perfect parent and the other
day I had a row of Ros and I said I'm
I'm sorry I'm not perfect every day I'm
sorry that some days I'm so Ros is my
wife
I said I'm I'm I'm sorry that I'm not
perfect every I love you so much I'm so
affectionate and sensitive but if I'm
stressed and I've got something going.
Some sometimes I'm snappy, sometimes I'm
impatient. And I don't shout at the
kids. I might shout at you and I'm
sorry. And it's nice to say that out
loud and have a bit of a chat about it
because then you kind of move on and you
can just, you know, get on with it and
you and you learn from it.
You're getting busier, right, with the
app coming with the app stuff you're
doing. You're getting more requests than
ever before surely. Dude, I'm so I've
this has been the year like I've I mean
I've worked hard really have over the
last years and during the growing stage
like with social media, you know, it's
hard building an audience and then I
kind of had great success with the books
and now like you know this year since PE
with Joe um the 24-hour challenge I I
then done Wake Up with Joe which is
three workouts a week for lockdown too
cuz I thought they need to exercise,
people need to move. I've now had the
book PR. I've been doing radio
interviews. I've done the channel for so
the BBC children need 24-hour channels.
I've not stopped. Like I don't know how
I'm still going, but I now at this
moment need more energy than ever
because this is the busy time. This is
like leading up to Christmas. I'm also
doing a January boot camp. 5 days a week
I'm doing live workouts through the app,
you know, which is great because it
means people are going to go, I want to
give it a go. And it's a really amazing
way of marketing the product, but I'm
going to be exhausted.
If you think about your state and your
mood and how you feel within yourself in
the midst of all this like chaos, and
then we've got the pandemic rattling on
outside as well. What impact has it had
on you? Um, all of this busyness and now
you got two kids, you know, that are you
growing up and screaming at you and
don't want to be put down.
Have you felt a change?
I deal with it in different ways. Like
usually I have these like blocks where I
I'll work for like 2 3 months and then I
go, "Right, I'm going to go to Santa
Monica for a few weeks or let's go um
have a nice week in Dubai just to like
unwind and leave the phones and stuff."
And I've missed that. I've missed that
just that reset button because I've had
a I had like a couple of days away um
just when lockdown was over but it
wasn't enough cuz I actually spent my
time filming workouts because I said I
was going to do three workouts a week.
So although I was there relaxing I'm
still there and my what I do is so
physical like
you know being being physical and doing
exercise but also doing it with such an
amazing energy through the camera is so
draining but last week has been the most
emotionally draining. I was doing like
radio interviews with um like Jamie
Oliver and Ricky Jase and doing all
these things. I'm it's out of my comfort
zone completely and then I had phone
calls every every hour on the hour to
promote the new book. So that is a
different type of emotion. And when we
talk about the body coach so you know I
am the physical body like the energy and
Nikki is like the CTO. He's the brains.
He takes all the all the things I can't
the process stuff. Nikki's on a laptop
doing Zoom calls 9 hours a day like
managing this agency um and all the
other marketing stuff. together we have
this perfect kind of relationship where
we are working as equally as hard but
we're taking we're doing what we can do
so I don't feel like burning out but I
do think at the end of January I need to
block a month out so I've taken the
month off hoping to go you know
somewhere nice I love Costa Rica I'd
love to go with the kids you know just
just just unwind and basically when I
have that time down off the offline and
I'm not filming it really re-energized
me when I come back I'm like I'm like
reset and like body coach volume two
ready to go again sort of thing. You
talked a little bit there about marriage
earlier and you've also you've also
heard me on this podcast talking about
marriage, right? I want you to tell me
where I I'm getting it wrong
and also why you think I'm getting it
wrong.
So, I listened to two episodes of your
podcast and I I really hear I hear
myself in you when I was like 25 and I
was lo and I I feel like a part of you
is lost because you've got everything on
the surface you could possibly want.
you've you've smashed it in business
like you've got an amazing story and
you've got you know incredible success
which is wonderful but there's that
maybe you're missing that deeper
connection with one person you know
you've got amazing friends and you've
got a great network of people you work
with but I do feel like the the love
between one person you know it's
different it's a different kind of
relationship where you can always lean
on them so when I was 25 I was in a
relationship from 19 and I really I was
running away I couldn't commit to it I
didn't I used to say like exactly what
you were like this marriage it's like
this religious thing. It's a contract
and why should that person get half of
what I've got and what it's not going to
work. All my other friends are unhappy.
They're all divorced. You know, one in
three marriages. So, the more you tell
yourself that, the more it becomes true.
And the truth is how you feel now is how
you feel. And what you believe now is
what you believe. But when you meet
someone and you you realize and when you
do fall in love in whatever way sense
that could be, it was almost like with
Rosie, I was telling her every day I
loved her and it wasn't enough. It was I
needed to tell her more. I needed to
have something stronger between us. So,
I said, "Can we have a baby?" You know,
then she fell pregnant and we had Indie.
So for me, in my head, the ultimate bond
between two humans is another child. And
then when she was pregnant, I never
thought I would get excited about the
idea of like proposing and getting
married. But it was just it just
changed. My mind has changed as I
started to think, do you know, I love
this girl. I don't want to be waking up,
you know, every other week with a
different girl in a different hotel. I'm
like, that's not who I have been. It's
never who I'll be. So I I love being
with I love being close to one person. I
think I'm quite um emotional like that.
Um, and then I asked her to marry me. We
had this amazing wedding day. And I do
love being married. And I just think
when you have kids and you start seeing
your children grow and you you see how
wonderful that can be and how much joy
they bring you. I just think your
perspective will change over time and
you're just not there yet. It might you
might not get that till you're 35. You
could be 45. I was 30. I met Rosie at
30.
Okay.
And I've been the happiest since I
turned 30. Honestly, I've just been I'm
commit cuz being honest and being
committed is two of the most wonderful
things. being sneaky, being deceitful,
not being honest or being jealous and
insecure. They're feelings you do not
want to go through your life with. So,
when you find someone, you know, be
committed and be loyal, it's it's a
really it really takes your love to
another level. Do
you believe in that? You know, there's a
bunch of words people use in uh in this
in this realm of like love and marriage.
Uh they say, you know, you got to find
your soulmate.
I don't know if it's soulmate, but
everyone says, "Oh, hard, you know,
love's hard work. Marriage is hard
work." It isn't. It doesn't have to be
hard work. Not if you're with the right
person. Of course, you could get with
someone too young, marry the wrong
person, it all goes wrong, and you know,
that's a bad experience, but it doesn't
mean that the next relationship won't be
better, and you can't improve and learn
from it. But, you know, I do feel like
Rosie is is the kind of female version
of me. Like, when we met, you know, we
were just having so much fun, and she's
she's a wonderful parent. I watch her
and I see how patient she is. I think I
learn a lot from her because I I I've
got like a two or three minute kind of
tolerance of Marley screaming and
screaming in my face where I just have
to walk out the room. I just can't
handle it. She can be in there like 20
minutes all through the night and I'm
like, yeah, with with with Indie crying
or Marley teething and I think it's
amazing. She's just got this natural
innate like motherly patience and love
and tolerance. So I watch that and I
literally like go I need a bit more of
that and I sort of learn from it. But
yeah, I mean you know maybe maybe you
might have one relationship last 5 years
but I do believe that when you are in a
relationship like give it all. Don't
don't be thinking this is going to end
soon. This my last one didn't work out.
I know now it's going to break down and
we're going to end up breaking apart.
We're going to end up leaving each
other. She'll she'll have an affair. I
I'll I'll leave her. It won't work. That
just it's hard to be happy in that
situation. So, I think take every
relationship and just maximize it to to
the best of your ability like you would
with someone that you work with, a
business partner. If we went into
business together, you try you try and
make that partnership so like awesome
and so effective and efficient. And it's
the same with a relationship. you've got
to, you know, keep keep doing the things
that make you happy and and yeah, I
think with Rosie, like just having a
night out, going for dinner. Um, and
the, you know, the the secret is if you
stop kissing, you're [__] If you
don't kiss your girlfriend and you stop
kissing, you just bypass each other and
you don't because everything starts from
a kiss. Do you know what I mean? It
could become a massage, could become,
you know, you might do a bit bit of
hanky panky, but if you stop kissing
that one thing, that intimacy, I feel
like I feel like everything breaks down.
Seriously, keep kissing.
It's one of the It's probably the only
thing that I've thought about going and
seeing a therapist about is like I have
a fairly negative pessimistic, let's
say, perception on romantic
relationships. Um, and I I think I've
identified that on one hand I'm my
expectations are probably like somewhat
unme unmetable and then on the other
hand I kind of see relationships as
being like a bird in a cage is the best
way.
Where's that come from? Like, so I know
your mom and dad and they're arguing
leaning at each other. My my parents
So that's the only that that's the only
marriage role modeling you're you're
basing your opinion on.
Yeah. So I I I have these but when I say
my parents screamed at each other, I'm
like my mom I've never seen since a
human able to perform the screaming
match she did. Nigerian woman and if you
don't know Nigerian women I do visualize
it like around a kitchen table.
The sound is un like you've never seen.
My dad actually said one day, he said,
"I your mom was screaming at me." This
is I think when we lived in Manchester,
probably before I was born. Your mom was
screaming at me and I went out like went
shopping, did all that. She had no idea.
I came back and she's still screaming.
She had no idea that I'd left the house.
And the the the the sound of it. I I
have this like mental image of my dad
sat passively just this like passive
white guy just sat there watching TV
just looking at the screen and my
African mother like kind of stood above
him just bellowing into his face at full
volume for like six hours. She didn't
lose energy. We talked about like
exhausting herself. She didn't lose her
energy and she would follow him around
the house. And so I'm think I looked at
my dad and thought he's trapped and this
is what my my
you know that that experience of seeing
your mom shout is thatffect has that
like affected your you know your are you
calm and you know when you argue are you
confrontational are you like cuz me and
Rosie are more like silent and we sulk
and we're so stubborn and we'll like go
two days about talking. We don't scream
and shout at each other. Are you are you
quite a shout?
I will never shout.
Oh so you're calm.
Never. I will not do it. I I will the
minute so I will try and explain myself
in a very calm way and then I'm like
okay I'm going
right and walk away.
I will like
do you ever say sorry? Do you ever admit
you're wrong or do you find it hard to
admit? ask me. So if you had asked me
that question two years ago, the answer
would have been like no, I never say
sorry. Like cuz I always kind of think
I'm right and it's like my way or the
highway. In the last year and when when
I was I got with this this certain
person um who I won't name and
she kind of taught me to like grow up a
little bit and and I started to
apologize for things and I started to
learn to apologize a little bit more.
But I'm I got to be honest. I'm not
going to lie. It's like the whole point
of this podcast is not to [__] lie.
I'm still not that good at it.
It is hard. I'm the same. I find it hard
to say sorry in the moment, but I do if
I go away for a little half an hour, an
hour, have a walk or do a workout, I do
come back and I go, I was a bit
disrespectful there. I do apologize. But
yeah, it's an ego thing. It's like you
just got to let your guard down. One
thing I say about relationships, which I
really think is valuable. I can't
remember why I heard it or read it, but
it was about you can be in a
relationship with someone and this
expectation thing where you want them to
do everything perfect and be everything
in one and be like this amazing like
just like unicorn, right? But you might
find them really attractive and really
funny, but intellectually they just
don't challenge you. Just you can't have
conversations about work. They don't
understand you. But you can ring me or
Nikki and we you can get that that that
that part of a relationship with from
someone else. So there's no pressure on
that person you're with to like be
really intelligent and really understand
business and really understand social
media. Like that's something I've
learned that sometimes you have to love
the person for what they've got. you
know, love that they're really
affectionate, love that they're really
caring and considerate, but maybe other
elements of their personality, you have
to get from someone else because the
chance of you finding the unicorn is so
rare, isn't it?
You're going to find that. And and also
you like you might be amazing at certain
things, but you might not be good at one
thing.
I'm not a unicorn. This is the problem.
Who is No one's a No one's a unicorn
really. No one's completely perfect
because when you're in a relationship,
you want the other person to like, you
know, do everything like you and be
interested in the same things as you.
like Rosy's not into, you know,
motorbikes, but I go my brother and my
my little my little brother George and
my dad. So, I kind of get I scratch that
itch and I come back and then I spend
time with Rosie and the kids. So, it's
really about finding the needs at uni as
a human being
in in maybe in multiple people and then
you can really just focus on what you
love about your partner
does help.
You talked a little I talked a little
bit about there about going to therapy.
Have you ever gone to therapy? So, this
week I had my deadline for my book,
Happy Sexy Millionaire, which you can
now pre-order. And it's been an absolute
uh labor of love over the last couple of
years. And because I had the deadline on
Sunday, I was head down, smashing it
out. Um, typically like me, forgetting
to eat my meals and things like that.
And um, and this is where he saved me
once again. And I was in my office until
6:00 a.m. in the morning. Um, was
getting very, very tired. I've had two
Hules and um I had dinner as well and
it's for me that was the perfect that
was the reason why I've teamed up with
Hule because someone like me in that
situation would basically either
completely skip meals, I would not get
my sort of vitamins and minerals, I
wouldn't get protein, then I'd start
feeling like [__] um because I didn't
have the time. And that's, as I've said
on this podcast before, the reason I've
um I'm so attached to Hu, the company,
the brand, the the founder, Julian,
because it really does save my ass. And
it has done for three years. And if you
are someone like me, you know, that does
have uh a very timelmited life, then I
really really recommend you give Hule a
shot. I really recommend you you give
berry flavor hu a shot because that is
my favorite flavor. And um yeah, so this
week I just wanted to shout it out
because you definitely saved me on
Sunday when I had my book deadline. And
also go and check out my book, Happy
Sexy Millionaire.
It's quite nice. It's like um
it's like Nesquick, isn't it?
Yeah, it's nice.
I do like that.
I talked a little bit about there about
going to therapy. Have you ever gone to
therapy?
I I call it the gym, but yeah, I think
my therapy from a kid and I look back
like for sure like I was stressed. I
didn't want to go home. I would be
always out the house, always playing
sport. I think it was my therapy and I
dealt with things through sport and
maybe that's why I became the body
coach. But I think I had um I had one
therapy session with a counselor once um
because I was basically in a
relationship I didn't want to be in and
I needed to talk to someone about it and
I had that session and I I just spoke
and and verbalized everything I was
going through and it was almost like
just by saying I was like I know I need
to walk away from this now and I I went
home and that was it. So it was really
it was an investment. And it was like an
hour of my time. Um I I I spoke to
someone cuz it wasn't my mom who was
invested, my dad who was invested. It
wasn't her parents and my friends who
really cared about her. It was like a
completely neutral person. And it really
helped because it changed the rest of my
life because I left a relationship I
wasn't happy in. I met Rosie. I got
married and I had kids, you know. And
this is the situation. I was 19 when I
met that girl. I was backpacking. I was
in a bar in Australia. You're very
different 10 years later. So maybe maybe
there can be such thing as a
relationship that's really great at a
certain time in your life, but then when
it's not right and it isn't working,
having a child and marrying that person
is definitely the wrong thing to do. Um,
and I didn't really realize that until I
met Rosie, just how how unhappy I
probably was in that last relationship.
So yeah, I've had it once and I I think
if I if I feel like I I need it, I'd be
open to it. I've got a lot of friends
that do it. It's like I see it as like
personal training for the mind, isn't
it? It's like why not why not take care
of your brain and your heart and your
mind? And that can be done through
therapy. So, I'm open to it. Um, I just
haven't felt I haven't had the calling.
I'm more interested in um I really like
the idea of doing an iOS ceremony.
Can we do it together?
Do you know why? I'm just I I listen to
your podcast. I listen to like certain
people that do it and I I'm drawn to it
because of that gateway and open up that
that even more love and more connection
when you realize we're all so
interconnected and obviously you can
meditate for 10 years or you can go and
do an arc serum and apparently you get
it's like a fast track to that feeling.
But yeah, you've talked about it. Have
you have I mean I was in Mexico in Tulum
and they they were doing like pot
ceremonies out there and I I just
couldn't quite convince myself to do it
but I would love to do Iaska one day
like go proper into the Amazon do it
properly with a shaman and like you know
feel feel that mother nature they talk
about that feeling of like the earth and
the connected to the human race. It must
be a wonderful feeling.
Have you ever done mushrooms?
I've never done mushrooms. No, I've
never I've never done drugs. So I
couldn't really um
I've never done anything like that. I've
never done mushrooms or I amasa but I
the more so I've just I've just invested
almost a million dollars into a
psychedelics company that's using it to
cure mental health disorders. We talked
about this didn't we?
Yeah. For the psilocybin so my dad was
involved in the trials at um the
Imperial College London. is involved. He
was basically um one of the uh not the
guinea pigs but yeah he it was a trial
between psilocybin um a placebo and an
anti-depressant drugs and obviously the
the studies come back that like this can
really help and it's a natural it's a
natural product from the from the earth
so yeah I can see that growing in the
next few years for sure when it when it
gets app has it been approved in the US
for like
yeah so it's in the
stuff um don't quote me on this but it's
in it's in the final stage of FDA
approval psilocybin so it's very very
close And there's a company called
Compass Pathways which has just gone
public and is as of right now worth
about 2 billion which is really develop
leading the pack in developing
psilocybin but it's crazy that I've not
tried it but I've looked at all the
research and development videos and
studies and data and it like blow blew
my mind.
Are you are you tempted to try it
yourself? Are you scared and nervous
about it?
Cuz I know the numbers. I've been
through I've looked at every drug and
I've I've seen where mushrooms and
psilocybin um rank in terms of the harm
they could possibly do to you and the
harm they can do to others when you're
on them. It's below alcohol. It's below
like every it's at the bottom. It's the
bottom thing on the list.
Yeah. It's been shown to really um
really help with addiction and
depression and and trauma from that. So
yeah, I suppose I wonder what the
experience like for us who maybe we're
not depressed and we're not anxious. I
wonder what that experience would be
like. But but yeah, you know, I listen
to a lot of podcasts. you know, Tim
Ferris is big on it. Rogan, you know,
and yeah, it's this kind of it feels
like this scary thing, but I suppose
because it's been going on for thousands
of years, you know, with kind of tribes
and it's not some dirty chemical drug
that's been manufactured in the lab. I
think it
it's non- addictive.
It opens up. So, what they say is it
opens up like neurological pathways that
maybe is all these memories locked. Did
you hear the Tim Ferris podcast? He said
like he done an Iawaska ceremony or
maybe it was psilocybin and he had this
vision of trauma that came through that
he completely blocked out.
Really?
Yeah. So he got he experienced um child
abuse like he literally didn't remember
it and he had this vision and all these
memories of being abused and it like
completely like opened up his his mind.
He's now obviously sharing about it but
that was like some so it's quite in a
way you don't know what you're
unlocking.
You can unlock really beautiful memories
and amazing things or but it can also
show you like quite traumatic upsetting
things but either way like you can learn
from it I Do you know what I did this
morning is the the the founder one of
the founders of the company a Thai um
which is leading the charge in terms of
psychedelics. They're really developing
about 10 different compounds in the
space. I I said to him I need to get you
on this podcast. Would you come on? And
so he's he's um as far as I know he's,
you know, he's incredibly successful
biotech guy. He's been doing it for
decades and um he's going to come on
onto the podcast and really talk through
all of these things. So like I gain and
psilocybin and all of that. So that'll
be
fascinating.
I'll be listening to that one. Yeah. But
listen, IA mushrooms, psilocybin, if you
want to do it, then I've been saying to
to my all these people in this room now,
I've been saying, "Let's go and do a
retreat with like a shaman." And um
they've told me what the best way to do
it is like the best retreat, the best
shaman, the best place. I'd love to do
something like that.
Yeah, I would be up for it. I mean, it's
a it's a it's a real person it's like
personal growth. Like you read a lot of
books. I'm not well read. I wish I had
more patience and more time and well I
wish I had more um commitment and
discipline to reading but I do I do I do
I'm drawn to it and it always it almost
they say like it will call you like my
dad's done an Iaska ceremony in Wales
and he said it just calls you like the
plant mother nature like you'll have a
calling one day and it'll be like I'm
ready at the moment we're just sort of
experimenting with the idea of it
and your dad did the psilocybin trial
with Imperial so what was his feedback
to you after he did it
yeah I mean it was um it sometimes takes
a little bit longer to integrate you
know you have the experience And you
know it was in a very controlled room
like it's in a proper like clinical
setting. So you're like in a hospital
room and they're holding your hand and
talking through it. And I'm not sure the
exact dosage but he got blasted with a
decent dose of psilocybin. Um and yeah
you know he saw some things and it
unlocked a little bit of you know trauma
and some visual stuff that he saw. But
again it's just about moving forward.
It's about it's about taking what you
see and integrating into your life and
saying I've had these experiences but
how can I be present today? How can I
enjoy my life today? And you know, with
depression, it's I don't think it's
going to be cured. I don't think you can
cure it like that because of the way the
brain works, but you're going to learn
to deal with it and and spot the signs
and kind of counteract it quicker. Um,
but yeah, he he had a positive
experience for sure and he's he's really
proud that he took part cuz he he
genuinely wants to help people. He said
if if people can come off chemical
anti-depressants and be given a really
beautiful natural um you know natural
product that can actually help them feel
happier and and especially for like
post-traumatic stress syn disorder like
people dealing with some really really
harsh stuff and they're getting blasted
with you know anti-depressants which are
very addictive and it's like morphine
isn't it? It's like it's not even it's
not even like good for you. It's they're
very addictive as well. I don't think
you're going to get the same thing.
Yeah, the side effects are really
really, you know, crazy. Um, sometimes
I think they're opioids. I think is it
opioids? Yeah, anti-depress I think
opioid I think anti-depressants are like
opioids or amphetamines. It's one of
them. It's like it's basically the drug
that you know you do not want to be
taking in a very small dose but over
time it can real generate real addiction
and you see it in America like the
prescription drug addiction over there
is is really destroying people's lives
over there.
My next question, you would have heard
this on the podcast if you listened to
the Eddie Hearn one. Uh, it's kind of a
new question I'm asking and it's a
question I really really love because I
think it gives a unique sense of
perspective. Um, you're an incredibly
busy guy. You're running around at the
moment doing this, that, and the other,
you know, all over the place. Um,
if you found out, god forbid, touch
glass, um, that this week was your last
week for whatever reason, god forbid, or
you walked out here and you got hit by a
a truck, what what would you regret
having not done or not doing more of? I
really wish I had like this long list of
bucket things that I wish I'd done. But
I'm I've always even when I was at
university, like I would go traveling in
my half term, my summer holidays. I
always I've always maximized life to the
the at that moment in time, you know.
I've always I've never kind of I've
never regretted or like missed out on
things. I've always traveled with my
friends. I've always, you know, done the
things I want. So, if I had a week left
on Earth, I wouldn't really regret
anything. I'd be proud. I'm proud of
what I've achieved in this short time.
I'm 35. I feel like I've I've been good.
I've done some good things. I'd probably
bring everyone together and like throw
my wedding party again cuz my wedding
day was wicked. Like I'd all you know
your best friends and all your mate your
mates and we had a fun fair and we had
all the food and we were dancing and I
think I'd try and recreate that if I
knew I had seven days. I'd get everyone
together and say look it's my last week.
Come down. Let's have another blowout
and have a party. Um but I wouldn't
regret Yeah. I just really wouldn't. I I
think it's a shame to live your life
like that. You know, regretting and
wishing your childhood was different.
ing you know you you I've and I've got
friends that kind of live in that
mindset of always looking back and
almost thinking about a moment in time
if they just done it differently they
were like life would have been different
today but you can't think like that you
can't get stuck between the future and
the past can you cuz that's really
really depressing whereas if you
actually just think look I've done what
I've done even the bad things and the
times I wasn't nice or disrespectful
like I learned from it and today I'm a
better person for it. A lot of people
when when you ask them that question,
they reflect on like a lack of balance
in their life. They'll say, "Oh god, I
work too much. I didn't see the kids
enough." And and those kinds of things.
That's typically what you hear. It's
like, "Oh god, do you know I really wish
I'd spent more time with this person or
or that person." I think if I was to
answer that question, I'd probably feel
I'd probably say that. I'd say, "Why
didn't I spend enough time with my
family?" I think the reason is because a
lot most traditional businesses like if
you're a graph like Eddie Hearn always
on the road always around the world you
know footballers again away every
weekend they're training they're you
know traveling the world musicians away
from their family and it's hard for like
you know stabil stability and so they do
sacrifice a lot for that fame and
success whereas my fame and success has
come through an iPhone in my kitchen so
I've really even before lockdown I
filmed all my workouts at home so I have
a great balance where I can do what I'm
doing and be successful but also leave
my phone for 2 weeks and go away and not
not worry about it. Or I can, you know,
put my phone down. Like I I I spend
quality time my kids every day. I'm I'm
adamant about that. So I do, you know,
breakfast. I make them breakfast every
day. I have 2 and 1 half hours. So
between like 5 and 7:30 where I don't
have my phone and I do dinner time, bath
time, but story time. Like I love it.
It's like my routine. And I and I know
get once they're down, I can go back to
work or, you know, watch a film. But
it's having little moments like that.
Just having that structure so that you
don't feel like you've missed out and
you ask them how their day has been. And
Indy's favorite thing is like she loves
cooking and she loves doing her
handwriting. So even just running in
there and doing 10 minutes of
handwriting with her. I mean she's 2
years old and she's doing the alphabet.
She's she's got like these dots. You
follow the dots and just seeing her with
a shaky hand to like now a month later
she's banging out the A to Z and it's
like immaculate. That's that's fun. It's
amazing. So I'm not missing out on these
moments. Although I'm really busy, I'm
also optimizing my time with them as
well if you know what I When you said
that India's really into cooking, I
thought, "Oh god, she's going to be the
next body coach." And then I thought,
"Oh god, I wonder if Joe would want her
to be on social media."
Oh, I don't know. I had this dilemma
with Rosie, you know, when I was
bringing out my cookbook, my weaning 15
book. So, I got a book deal and I was
genuinely enjoying that journey. I was
learning to wean indie for the first
time. I didn't know what to do. I was
working with a nutritionist. Um, and I
shared so much. You know, we got 50,000
pre-orders and I worked hard for them
pre-orders because I shared everything,
you know. I shared the dinner. I was It
was camera at breakfast. cuz it was
camera at lunch. It was Indie, do you
like that, darling? Do another one of
them. Like, so I shared so much in order
to have that success. But now I've kind
of I've just gone a little I just don't
want the phone out during dinner time.
So I'm producing less content. I'm not
producing as much recipe stuff because I
want to have that time just with us. And
I used to just film every Gusto recipe.
Every recipe was on Instagram. So yeah,
I've had to sort of step back a little
bit. And there's no way you're going to
keep your kids on social media. It's
just whether they're 10 or 15, they're
going to eventually get it. Would you
like to though if you could? There was
two buttons in front of you. One of them
was she won't join social media until
she's 21 and the other one was she'll
join at 10.
Oh, 100% no. If I have if I could have
my life without social media like I have
an unhealthy relationship with it. And I
you know I watched the social dilemma on
Netflix and I was like I cannot believe
how addictive we are. How these devices
are so welld designed. I would I wish me
Rosie and and the kids weren't on social
media but I know I wouldn't have been
the body coach. PJ wouldn't have
happened. So, it's almost this like
trade-off.
It's like a trade-off, isn't it? It's
like if you want to have this success
and have this amazing life and also
reach millions of people, the only way
you can do that is is social media. It's
not TV, it's not radio, it's social
media. So, it has its pros and cons, but
I I hope that I hope that we kind of we
can somehow learn to control this mental
health epidemic that we've got going on
with social media and the narcissism of
Instagram. I just hope that we kind of
go, actually, you know what, that was
cool in 2010 and 2020, but maybe now
let's be more humble. Let's just be
kinder and let's like share useful
content. Do you know what I'm trying to
say?
Yeah. Cuz you know in she's going to get
she's going to get her phone. She's
going to open it on that first day when
she's 10 years old and she's going to
see Kylie Jenner in a bikini on a yacht
in a Louis Vuitton bikini on a massive
yacht looking back at it with her ass
looking perfect and perfect boobs and a
perfect face and perfect hair. and
India's going to stare down into that
phone and think, okay,
yeah, that's my life. Yeah. And it is
and it's that comparative thing and it
it happens to me. I I follow a lot of
Instagram accounts and you know, my
explore page is basically like
motorbikes or it's you know, fitness
models and it it's like because I'm in
that in that in that kind of atmosphere
in that that um world and it does you
think oh these guys are in such good
shape, you know, I'm looking a bit
skinny. I'm a little bit pit like
whoever you are, you still start to
compare yourself. It affects your
confidence whether you know it
subconsciously or not. And you know, I
wish I was more tanned. I wish I was on
holiday. I wish I had a bit more muscle
this. I wish I wasn't so skinny or I
wish I didn't have that little bit of
body fat on my tummy this year because
you you're just bombarded with these
visual representation. So yeah, I think
that in that effect it almost like you
can't really stop that if you if you're
looking at it all the time. You can't
it's almost like you have to just
unfollow some of those account. You
said, didn't you said like unfollow the
accounts that don't serve you.
And I've started doing that. If I get to
one, I go why did I follow that? Bang.
Unfollow. Do you know what it is as
well? So I was when I wrote my I started
writing my well I finished my book now
but when I started writing the book um
people quite crazy at the title's happy
sexy millionaire and in this one chapter
I really focus in on comparison and this
is an bit of an exclusive and I go
through all of the studies on why we
compare ourselves to other people and
why we compare our you know our car to
someone else's car and the conclusion I
came to is we're not actually going to
ever be able to stop comparing because
our brains are wired that way for
survival. They like that's how our brain
works. It's very very lazy. If you show
someone three TVs in a shop, an
expensive one, a middle one, and a a a
cheap one. Statistically, people will
pick the middle one
because they think that one's going to
break and it's [__] the cheap one, and
they think the expensive one is maybe
too flashy. So, if you show them three
steaks on a menu, statistically people
will pick the one below the most
expensive one.
Yeah. You know, even I actually when you
come to say that I sort of feel the same
like I'll be like I don't know I don't
need that, you know, the waggy one
because I' I'm happy with a 20 one in
the middle or whatever. Yeah, you're
right.
It extends across everything. If I said
to you, Joe, would you rather um drive
10 minutes to save £10 on a 200 jacket
or drive 10 minutes to save £10 on a 20
pound jacket? People go, "Well, I I'll
drive I'll save the£10 on the 10 on the
10 pound jacket." And they go, "Why?
It's 10 minutes. going to cost you to
drive and you're going to save £10. But
the brain is just assume it's like very
the conclusion is
yeah what's the sum what's the
conclusion I'm interested that because
I'd like to know what you're sharing
about that
the conclusion is that our brains are so
so lazy they make such lazy snap
decisions and conclusions because those
snap decisions helped us to survive when
we're when we were 10,000 years a lion's
running towards you can't [__] like
right okay is it you've got to just so
our brain does it at super speed and and
in the context of social media it's like
I loved my Nokia
Yeah,
until
until the new one came out,
the iPhone comes out, right? I was the
the proudest kid in school showing
everyone like, "Oh, look, snake. I can
do snake on here."
But then but then the minute that same
thing, which hasn't changed in value,
exists in a world of iPhones, which is
what social media is. It's like me
looking at Kylie Jenner immediately,
even though I haven't changed in value,
I am less than.
Our brain tells you.
No, I agree. I agree with that. And I I
feel that myself sometimes when I when I
watch that show, the Netflix documentary
um the social dilemma, it did say all of
the guys that created the products, that
created the like buttons, all those
people said, "My kids aren't on social
media." And that's the alarm bell. It's
like saying, you know, it's like um that
joke of, you know, I wouldn't trust an
eye surgeon who's wearing glasses. Like
I'm getting my eyes laid on Saturday, by
the way. Really? But like they say, you
know, don't you know, if that person
that created it and that does it every
day is saying to you like get your kids
off social it's not good for their
mental health. And that that is what it
is. It's not about it. I don't think it
kills ambition. I think it just really
affects people's mental health
and their self-esteem.
Their self-esteem. Yeah. And sometimes
that's irre irreversible. And you could
be like a young teenager that has an
eating disorder, you know, all through
your life or is um
is is binging or undereating or, you
know, not respecting your body and that
can really stem from like how you feel
about yourself, right? So I I try and
use my social media to obviously promote
healthy food and fitness. That's a
positive part of social media and and I
think your content is positive. I think
some of the quotes that you share like I
you know like the 10 things and all
these little sometimes I really want to
go bang wow like it's just a nice little
light bulb moment. So you're using it
for positive and we have to just always
focus on that. Focus on the people that
are bringing the good stuff out of it.
I've I think you've probably heard me
say before that my the way I use my
Instagram I genuinely believe has like
saved my life a little bit because I
would have before if you scroll down my
Instagram right now you'll see what I
was like oh picture of a Lamborghini,
picture of a Louis Vuitton bag and then
at some point when I became a CEO of a
company and I felt a sense of
responsibility not to be that guy. I
thought okay so how can I use this? I'll
post quotes and because I've done that
for the last like I don't know two three
years it's meant that when I do have
it it means that I don't buy stuff to
post it and I if I'm in a helicopter
going over Sri Lanka sat next to my
girlfriend which I was no one will know
because I actually don't have a place to
put it so I'm now making decision
unless you're on your close friends list
that's yeah I'm so glad I'm on that
that's why I get so nice yeah that's
only there's only 100 people on there
but like I I don't have a place to put
it and so when I'm making the decision
It's not based on social media cuz I
know I'm not going to be able to tell
really anybody other than like my a
couple of my close friends. My question
though, which is kind of attached to
that is about money. Something that a
lot of people probably won't talk to you
about. Now listen, I
it's always uncomfortable.
It's just awkward even when articles
come out like Joe buys this much, you
know, this million pound house. It's
like why is that important? But I just
know that people are obsessed, aren't
they? So ask what you want to ask and
I'll be honest.
Yeah. So an unavoidable consequence of
success. Like the thing is, the reason
why I'm actually not uncomfortable about
asking you this question is because if
there's anyone on planet Earth on off
camera that I know has the most genuine
sincere intentions, it is you. Probably
of all the people I've met, I'm like, I
can't think of a guest I've met who is
more sincere about their intentions
more. Thanks, Steven. Your maximum
sincerity, right? So, some people are as
well, but your maximum. So, um I've got
no problem asking you this question,
which is an unavoidable consequence of
your success over the last year
previously is money, right? It's what
allows you to have a camera to do PE
with Joe, right?
Yeah, of course. Yeah, definitely.
So, this year, I mean, you've made a lot
of money, right? Like every year. Um,
what role does money play in your life?
Just be honest with me.
It's a it's that it's that thing of, you
know, it talk we talk about, you know,
freedom of time and like, you know,
owning Yeah. I've always been about time
and being with friends and family. So,
for me, it's like it's it's removed a
lot of stress cuz when I was a kid, I
remember money was a stressor. Like we,
you know, we had um we we never had food
in the house. So my mom would have to go
to my ns and we'd have to get like
borrow bought pints of milk and like
running in next door. You know, when
you're on a council estate, it was quite
common. You'd go and ask for a pint of
milk or a couple of I remember asking
for like a bag of sugar for our cereal
and stuff. So I I didn't have any money
growing up and you know I was on school
dinners, you know, I was my mom was on
benefits. So it was it was all like
Iceland two for one, buy them free. It
was crap food, you know, and that
affects that affects things as well, you
know, the food you're eating. But I I
suppose for me when I started to make
money, it was a gradual thing. I didn't
win the lottery and wake up a million
pounds, you know, I I released my online
plan and one person signed up and then
it was 10 and it grew and it was gradual
and so it was a nice way of be and like
with my followers, it was a nice gradual
thing. I didn't just jump off of um Love
Island with 2 million followers and have
money thrown at me and I think that does
affect your ego differently and I think
anyone that's young that gets thrown
into the media with money and fame, it
would affect you in a certain way. Um,
so it definitely allowed me to have more
freedom and to take care of my family. I
think I'm not someone who has been
successful and left people behind. That
would make me seriously unhappy. I've
helped my brother out. I've helped my
dad, you know, I got my mom a house.
We've done amazing holidays together
like with all the boys, you know, they
know I'm there if they need me. And and
that's that's a nice feeling. But yeah,
the question is around motivation,
around money as well. I feel like as
time's gone on, I become less motivated
by it. And I remember that story you
said about you're up here and you could
have run downstairs and sent email and
got 20 grand. I have days that too where
I think I could go and do another gusto
post and 10,000 people might sign up or
I could go and film another workout and
it could get 2 million views. And I have
and and when I feel like that I have to
remind myself of like why I do what I do
and and that mission thing about there's
someone at the end of that YouTube video
just waiting for a new workout and they
live in scun for when they've got no
money in their proper skin and they're
waiting for the workout and I remind
myself of that. So yeah, money money
allows it just allows freedom. It's less
stress. And money was always something
we always argue about. I think maybe my
marriage, I'll be honest, is easier
because we don't argue about money. And
maybe your mom and dad used to argue
about money, like school uniform, the
new trainers you wanted, the school
trip, you go, like I remember like going
on a school trip was really hard for my
mom and dad. We couldn't afford to do
the school trip sometimes. And you know,
they would always work really hard and
it would, you know, sometimes I did,
sometimes I didn't. So, I think having a
bit more money in the bank means there's
less pressure on you as a person and
therefore you can sort of you can go
through life a bit easier. But
I had to overcome, as we talked about
kind of earlier, I had to overcome that
that feeling though, like that, a [__]
if more money isn't going to have an
impact, then what the what the hell are
we doing, Steve? Like, what are we doing
here? Cuz, you know, 16-year-old Steve
told me it was money was the whole game.
You get more of it, you get more and
more happy. It's just like that. Your
happiness goes up with your bank
balance.
Does your ego inflate? cuz I I can I can
imagine when you said about, you know, I
used to go to like China, white and punk
and like, you know, studio bon and I
never had money. I was skint. I was a
university kid. I had like 20 quid in my
pocket. I'd be in there on a freebie.
But I imagine if you had money at that
time, you'd be the one with the bottles
spraying it about and all the lights and
all the girls come with a big flares. Is
that what you were like? Did it inflate
your ego? You you spend more money?
You know what? I I And I've got to be as
self-aware as I possibly can be here. I
um I don't think it's ever had an impact
on my perception of myself. However, I
did like I've never I genuinely feel the
same opinion of myself as I always have
since I was three. Like I've it's never
changed.
But I bet people around you changing
like cuz they knew Steve had the dough
and you were there and all the girls
would come over.
I was rolling into clubs and spending. I
I remember this one club in Manchester
called Neighborhood. They had this
little star next to my name cuz I was
like the number one spender and I'd walk
in there and get five bottles of Don
Preon. I didn't think I was anything
else but I was still doing it. Like I
you that's a really important point to
make. Like you you hear about these rich
[__] and these like young kids that
like they get all this money then they
start treating people like [__] and they
change. All of my friends say to me you
haven't changed at all.
You just you just bought you just I
suppose you were like the facilitator.
You just you were the fun you brought
people together and you and you could
have the fun. And I think you know maybe
if I had a bit money at that time maybe
I would have done those things cuz I do
I mean my thing now is going to nice
restaurants. I love going to like Zuma
or No and having a meal with my friends.
I I didn't have that kind of flashy kind
of like nightclub vibe, but you know, at
the time, the thing is at that time that
was what you wanted to do at that time.
You don't do it now. And I think if you
had fun, like it's good. It's all good.
But yeah, money
I got out my system.
Yeah. Get out your system.
And it's weird because I' I'd looked at
those people in the clubs and I'd looked
at rich people and thought, "Oh god,
like yeah, when I when I become one of
them, then I'll be super happy." So then
you go and do it. I went and got this
massive [__] mansion in the
countryside and I'm sat there like,
"Nope."
Yeah. spray the bottles for a year and
you're getting all the bottles for a
year and you're like, "Okay, nope."
So, when you um when you like when you
you exited, you know, or even before
that, you you've been financially secure
for a long time. Has your motivation
dropped or increased? Because I at the
moment, I'm feeling quite demotivated,
but I'm more excited by the legacy and
the potential of like building the body
coach to a point that in 20 years time,
I can look back when I'm a bit older and
go, I started that, I created that
company, you know, that's still going.
Did you find yourself lost motivation
cuz you were like, you know what, I can
chill now. I ain't got I ain't got the
the hustle in me anymore,
mate. It's a really good question and
again, I've been writing a lot about
motivation lately, so I think I've got a
pretty good answer to this. Um, and you
know, one of the the best sort of
easiest answer to this question is just
referring to my gym routine. I think you
might have heard on the podcast, I said
in one of the episodes that every
February and March, I'm the most
motivated person on planet Earth to work
out. And I say to myself, I'm going to
get I'm have a great body for summer.
And then summer comes, I drop the photo
on social media, summer ends, and I
literally can't bring myself to the gym
because my motivation, my why was
anchored to a timeline, which is summer
and looking good. And so the minute I
post, and everyone likes it,
it was like I genuinely couldn't get
myself to the gym and I was going like
two times a day before. And this relates
to our motiv our other motivations in
other parts of our life. Like when you
lose when you lose the anchor with your
why, which is what you described after
PE with Joe.
Yeah.
You've got to [__] find it again.
It's like the gold medalist. You've got
to go and find it again and you've got
to reanchor yourself to something that
hopefully doesn't have a short-term
timeline against it. Gary Vaynerchuk
says the same thing. He says, "The worst
day of my life will be when I buy the
Jets." It's been his
Yeah, that's his thing, isn't it?
It's forever.
It's his moonshot. And you you I hadn't
hear that before that that term moonshot
is nice because it's like Joe,
don't just do something you know you can
do in 6 months. Do something you think
will take you 20 years.
This is what the conversation we had,
right?
That's what you said. And I went home
and I was thinking the same. I said,
Nikki, I said,
I love that. I love the idea of a
moonshot. What's our moonshot? And he's
like, "Well, our moonshot is that we
build the body coach and we have an exit
so that someone comes along and buys it
and it continues to flourish for years
to come." Because otherwise, I was the
it's like Mr. Motivator. Smashed it in
the 80s or 90s, whatever it was. And I
would have just been the body coach, the
Mr. Mo of this time unless I build it to
sell and I build it to sustain itself
and grow and continue to help people.
And that's really where my head's now. I
think I've had a shift in my mentality
towards that.
But I did lose motivation at several
parts of my life. And it was always as I
described with the 20k and email
downstairs. It was when I was doing
things without that real intrinsic deep
s why. So when before social chain
started I had no motivation to do any
marketing for anybody or to send emails
to anybody. And then social chain starts
and I'm going to the [__] Ukraine at
3:00 a.m. in the morning. I spent oh
what was it? I spent 11 of the 12 months
last year in hotel rooms happy driving
for this mission of building this
company with super key thing with people
I loved.
Yeah.
Right. because it didn't have to be
social media. We had a purpose. We had a
worthwhile goal. I was working with
people I loved towards that worthwhile
goal. And I felt competent in doing so.
And if you have those three things like
competence, a worthwhile goal, and
you're working with people you love. And
and lastly, I'd say a sense of control
like autonomy cuz a lot of people don't
we have that in our lives. A lot of
people working in factories and other
industries don't have that sense feeling
of autonomy over their time. And
have you got the hustle now? Could you
like go back and do the 11 months on the
roads too? cuz I remember I remember you
used to always be in an airport always
rolling that little wiggly thing around.
I thought it must be like no matter how
much money you're no matter how much
money and how much you're building there
must be an element of loneliness and
like exhaustion where you think I just
need to be like settled in one place and
now you're in London. Do you think
you're sticking about or are you going
to hit the road again?
Um great question and it's something
I've reflected on. If you told me now to
fly to the Ukraine and do a talk, I'd be
like [__] off. I've said this to my
assistant the other day. I said I can't
understand where it where the motivation
came from and it's because I've lost it.
I've lost the anchor. I've quit social
tone. So when when I even with this
mindset, I think go to the [__]
Ukraine and do a talk at 9:00 a.m. to a
bunch of people for an hour.
[__] off.
Yeah. You lost it.
I've lost it cuz cuz I've quit. So my
anchor's gone and I can't even get
myself back into the mindset. However, I
will get my anchor back at some point.
Yeah.
And I'll find something else that And
I'm not trying to find it at the moment.
Yeah. Just it's nice to slow things
down. I think the lockdown's helped us
just think we don't need to be on this
hamster all the time. Like it's all
right. A few months of the year like you
said, you know, nothing in nature blooms
all year round. Like you can have a
couple of quiet months cuz you know, you
know, your event didn't happen. I really
wanted to be at that event in
Manchester, but I'm hoping that happens.
I I need to come. You know, there's
going to be different momentuge. Yeah, I
know. I mean, like, mate, you showed me
the music. I got me and Nikki got mad
like goosebumps just listening to the
music you're going to play. Um, but
yeah, you've got loads of head. think
it's important to just have these months
where you go, I'm not everywhere at the
moment, but I know in six months I've
got this great project and there's your
moment to bloom. And that's kind of
where my head's at now. Rather than
like, come on, what should we do now?
Let's do another this. Let's let's let's
do more of this. I'm like, it's okay to
be not busy and not be successful for a
few months
and to create a void in your life. This
is what my mentor said to me. He's one
of I think he was one of the the first
investor ever in Spotify. He said,
Steve, I met him after I resigned and he
said, "Steve, listen, it's so tempting
to just sort of grab the bull again and
just go and run and run and run and
run." He said, "But the reason you were
successful before is because you were
really hungry." Yeah.
So he said, "Create a void in your life.
Resist
the temptations just to run back into
something and just let it be."
A concept that's probably not easy for
me or you to understand. Like just the
I'm getting it now, though. I'm getting
it now because I, like I said, I've
always had like two books a year. I've
had a DVD out. I've had merchandise,
pots and pans, you know, protein stuff.
I've always had something. But actually
now I know I need to just chill out and
take some time off because I can't I
don't want to be hammer I don't want to
be selling stuff to people all the time.
I want to just be get back to my free
content what I'm good at what I start
you know the organic stuff that I
genuinely started doing in the beginning
because that's when I'm happiest when
I'm getting millions of views on my
YouTube channel. I love that. I love
that people are actually like doing
those workouts. It's 15 minutes of my
time but it's helping someone really
transform their day. And so I'll
continue to um you know push that
mission which is to get people moving.
And if it's with even it's one person a
day like it's enough sometimes.
I just reflected then when you said that
I think of one of the conversations we
had in that restaurant which was you
were saying you know I've done the pee
with Joe and what's next and I saying I
was I remember saying to you like Joe
this is a false peak cuz like I did I
say this
and I said I don't think I'm going to
achieve anything in my life that's going
to have more impact because there may
never be another lockdown and there may
never be like 80 million people in their
living room doing my workouts again. But
you were like Joe don't be silly like
there's something else. There's
something there has to be. Like if you
don't you're going to lose it. you can
lose motivation. So yeah, you said the
thing about the moonshot like imagine
eradicating, you know, whatever it may
be, like going for that real like steel
Steve Steve Jobs or Bill Gates like
vision of like changing the world.
It's exciting. It might never happen,
but at least have a crack.
But you have a you this is why I refer
to it as a false peak because
mountaineers when they're climbing, they
look up the mountain and they see these
peaks and it because of the perspective
of when you're climbing a mountain, it
looks like the top and so they climb and
they stop and they go, "Oh, [__] That
was but it's a false peak." And I think
for you this is going to be a false pig
because now you have more power than
you've ever had. So you have this I in
my view again not telling how you live
your life. You have a responsibility to
you're a [__] MBE. You're you know
everyone knows your name now and you've
got a power to do things on a global
level that even I'm not sure yet you
realize you're capable of doing. And I
think when you realize what you're
capable of then um you're going to find
a why because listen you you can't waste
the power you've got. You just simply
can't. And there's a lot of pain out
there. There's a lot of people getting
fat. There's a lot of people not eating
right. And they need someone that has
your power. It's like it's like, you
know, life has given you this this
responsibility and gone, Joe, listen, we
need you. And I think that's I mean,
that's enough to get out of bed for
every day.
That is the goal, mate. And it's it's so
lovely to hear you say that. And I do
believe that we have a purpose and we
have we have an energy inside us. And I
I bumped into this guy once on the
street in London and he was really I
think he was a shaman of some sort. And
he he he basically put his hand on my
shoulder. He he does my workouts and
he's like, "There's something about you
like you've got an energy. There's
something pushing you forward, isn't
there? Like it's more than views and
fame and numbers. Like there's something
inside said, "Yeah, like there is it's
this energy that is constantly like just
go and film the workout. I know you're
tired, but do it." And it's that it's
that thing of giving. I I'm my happiest
when I'm giving and sharing. And the
minute I stop that, even if I sell the
body coach, you know, I know that that
moment will come where I feel like, you
know, I still need to be doing what I'm
good at and still need to be
reconnecting and um that is my energy.
That's that. And I didn't have that. I
was really lost and confused until 25. I
came back from this trip to America. I
started to become a personal trainer and
it was like I just knew in that moment
this is what I was going to do and I've
just put all my energy and love into it
since. So yeah, let's let's see what we
can do in 2021.
Thank you so much for your time, Joe.
It's been an absolute pleasure and I'm
super excited to to bring you back on
for a third time once you've conquered
the world.
And we'll be like, we were sat here and
you said this and then
I know it's been a pleasure, mate, and I
really do enjoy your podcast. I take
little nuggets from it. I think you're
always sharing a positive message. So,
keep doing it. Um, it's good to see that
you're growing and building and I, um, I
hope this episode does really well for
you.
Thank you, mate. Appreciate you. Always
nice one. Good luck, mate.
Thank you for sharing all of your wisdom
and learnings. I'm continue to be
inspired by you. I can't wait to see
what you achieve in the next few years.
Now, go and get your moonshot.
Go and build a rocket.
[Music]